>> Kyle Simpson: Some of you
have undoubtedly seen the WAT
video I referred to multiple times,
and one of the famous things in the WAT
video was, how could something like
an empty array somehow be coercively
equal to the negation of itself?
And on its surface,
the way that problem is constructed,
it seems like a clear arguments
against JavaScript, and
a clear arguments against
the double equals.
But this is not as it seems,
this is not as it appears,
because this construct is
a false construct to begin with.
You would never, under any circumstances,
compare a value to the negation of itself,
ever.
That's just never gonna
happen in the programs.
So we went and looked for
this artificial scenario that
would never happen in real code.
And then said this whole mechanism is
broken because one weird corner case
doesn't behave sensibly.
Under what circumstances would
you ever have an array, and
then try to compare it to
the negation of the array?
Negation of any array,
not just itself, of any array?
That would never sensibly occur,
you would never design code like that.
Nevertheless, let's explain how it works.
It's gonna use the exact same
stuff I already taught you.
If I had two arrays, and
for some strange reason,
I tried to compare one array
to the negation of itself.
>> Kyle Simpson: Compare that in your
mind to the more appropriate comparison,
which is to say, I want to check to
see if they're not the same array.
That's the not equals.
Those might look like the same thing, but
these are entirely different approaches.
One is saying I wanna see if it is
coercively equal to its negation, and
the other one is saying I wanna
see if it is not coercively equal.
Those are entirely different beasts.
Line 8 is what you would
write in code sensibly.
Line 4, the WAT video source, essentially,
is what you would never write in code.
But let's just indulge it for a moment.
To explain the algorithm, how are we gonna
explain that line four allows it and
also line eight allows it?
How is it possible that
both of those can be true?
Well, here's the algorithm at play.
Number one, we start with
the workshop one students not, or
equal to the negation of
the workshop two students.
What we have to do is reduce
workshop1Students to its value,
which is an array, and
then negate workshop2Students,
workshop2Students is
an array which is truthy.
So if we negate it becomes line five,
it becomes false, right?
Now, we have a non-primitive
compared to a primitive.
So we need to turn that
non-primitive into a primitive.
We need to turn the array into
a primitive and what does it become?
It becomes the empty string.
So now,
we have an empty string compared to false.
We have two primitives but
they are not of the same type.
The algorithm prefers that
they both become numbers, so
this one becomes a number,
which it shouldn't.
But it does become the number zero instead
of nano and this one needs to become
a number as well and
now zero is equal to zero, okay?
The algorithm is sensibly applied, but
it's on a bogus corner case that would
never actually happen in your code.
So it's not an effective
argument against this mechanism.
It makes for great videos and
great headlines but
it is not a rational argument.
The second one is much more rational,
because if we look at the equivalent
of the not equals, it is basically like
the negation of the coercive equality.
So we can ask ourselves,
does it make sense for
workshop one students to be coercively
compared to workshop two students?
Well, since they're both arrays,
then what we're effectively doing
is asking an identity question.
We're saying,
are they not the same identity?
Which is a totally valid thing for
you to ask in your program.
>> Kyle Simpson: And it would work
identically if you use the triple equals
version of them.
It's a rational thing, and
it has no difference in the rational case
between double equals and triple equals.